# cyclonic-wind-impacts
Python code used in the study of 21C-end changes in extratropical cyclone frequencies and wind impacts across Europe under different climate change scenarios.

**Main author**: Alex Little

**Co-authors**: Dr Jennifer Catto, Dr Matthew Priestley

## Requirements
- Python 3.8+
- MacOS/Linux

## Setup

### Clone the repository
1. In a Terminal window, run: `git clone git@github.com:alexslittle/cyclonic-wind-impacts.git`
2. Navigate into the directory: `cd cyclonic-wind-impacts`

### Set up Python environment (pip)
1. Create the environment: `python3 -m venv venv`
2. Activate the environment: `source venv/bin/activate`
3. Install all packages required by the project: `pip install -r requirements.txt`

### Download cloud data (BackBlaze)

All large files needed to run the project are stored in a bucket on BackBlaze.
They can be downloaded to your local repository by running `python get_data.py`

The files that this step downloads include:
- Gridded population data
- Gridded surface wind speed data (processed files originally downloaded from ERA5/CMIP6 data nodes)
- Cyclone track spatial and temporal co-ordinates (generated by M Priestley)

The API credentials are already built-in to the `get_data.py` script. 
Unfortunately, Backblaze instigates a relatively small data download bandwidth limit.
As a result, this script can only be used 1-2 times per day.

## Analysis
- Certain model parameters can be adjusted in `params.py`.
- Once all above steps are complete, the project can be run using `python generate_footprints.py`,
then `python generate_ssis.py` (must be in this order).
- All results are saved to the `outputs` directory.
- If using the Cartopy package to plot results, it is recommended that you do this in a different environment.
